# IS2-Gridded Product
Code for analyzing tracks and converting to a specified gridded product

To be filled out. 

Generally, consists of code that processes data from an existing set of .h5 or .nc files. It then accumulates statistics into bins at a specified time and spatial resolution to create value-added products. 

First, we need to download and examine data derived from a set of .h5/.nc files from ICESat-2. 

**Data/**
Hidded folder with required directory structure, starting with "All_Tracks_Netcdf"

  - **All_Track_Data/**

Contains an un-ordered set of .h5 (.nc) files that we wish to grid and compare. These are files of the form: processed_ATL07-01_20181031065620_04990101_006_02.nc

**Beam-Data-Mat/**
      - **NH/**
      - **SH/**

Contains Matlab-compatible files generated by conversion scripts that are segmented into NH/ and SH/. Files are of the form: 201907-beam-gt2r.mat

**Conversion/**

Contains scripts and drivers that take in IS2 data and organizes it into Matlab compatible .mat files broken down by each month/year/beam/hemisphere and selecting only the specific fields desired for the analysis as specified in the script. If there are 10,000 tracks covering 2 full years, for example, this will take the 10,000 different .h5 files and convert to a set ot 12 x 2 x 6 x 2 = 288 .mat files of varying size. These data will retain their RGT structure but they will be chunked up into smaller pieces for analysis. This produces 
  
  - _convert_IS2_data_bybeam.m_
      Script to do the actual conversion for a given month/year/beam/hemisphere.
  - **Drivers/**
      Contains a series of "drivers" that operate over the .h5/.nc files. Because the analysis is month-and-beam-by-month-and-beam, these are looped over and output checked against saved data. These          loops take place across hemispheres, years, beams, and month for the conversion script. 
  - **Bash_Scripts/**
      Contains scripts for submitting SLURM jobs that run the relevant conversion code. For example IS2_nc_to_mat.sh submits a job to run drive_conversion.m 

**Gridding/**

Contains scripts for taking individual tracks in .mat format and converting to gridded data.  The output is placed in the Output/ directory

  drive_gridding.m is the main loop over all tracks/beams etc. 
  analyse_and_grid_file contains the month-by-month looping for an individual file and handles all along-track calculated statistics. 
  grid_general does the statistical gridding for general variables (number of granules, segments, etc). 
  init_setup sets up the general gridding. 

**Analysis/** 

Contains scripts for each individual process we want to examine. Each has the following files:

  -- Called from drive_gridding
  
    - init_XX - this code pre-allocated fields we will be analysing for the analysis step
    - analyse_XX - this performs along-track analysis on each granule
    - grid_XX - this uses along-track lat/lon data to create a gridded product using user-specified functions for each track. 
    
  -- Called from drive_output
    - compile_XX - this allocates and defines output fields for writing to netcdf

Currently there are four "processes" that are created. You can edit in config_all.m to add more. 
 - General/ - MUST be run and is called outside of the "process loop" in drive_gridding.m
 - WAVES/ 
 - FSD
 - LIF

**Output/**
  Subfolder that contains output from Analysis scripts. Output data will be in subfolders of the form HEM-GRID (i.e. NH-100x100 is NH gridded data on a 100x100 km gridding). This data is large and is ignored here except for showing directory structure. 

**Supporting_Files/**

Contains supporting files for running Analysis/Conversion scripts. 
  - **KDTrees/**
      These are the set of KDTree searchers which should be developed before running Analysis scripts. Code to generate them is provided. These are used to ascertain how to convert an IS2 track to a gridded location on the globe.
  - **Grid_Files/**
      These are grid files for the 25km polar stereographic grid. They are helpful for generating the tree searchers. 



